my name is Ginetta Highlands and I work
here at Camden bi as market insights
manager I'm now going to show you some
first-class facilities which we use here
at Camden Bri and I'm going to explain
the principles of consumer testing we
have a large database of consumers from
varying socio-economic groups all
criteria for each test are set up by the
clients and the appropriate consumers
are selected most communication is
carried out electronically however from
time to time it is necessary to contact
consumers by telephone the products are
logged in to ensure full traceability
each product is given its own unique
sample login number all details from
receipt to disposal are documented all
consumers are required to fill out a
consent form which asks about any food
allergies and basic health questions as
each test is different all consumers are
briefed prior to each session the
consumers are reminded that there are no
right or wrong answers simple
instructions are given on how to use the
booths we also explain the purpose of
the test we usually use north lighting
however we can use colored filters and
the color and intensity can be set as
required each product is passed from the
preparation area through the hatch and
into the booth the consumer follows the
instructions on screen and enters the
data as prompted each booth contains
filtered water and water biscuits to
cleanse the palate between samples at
the end of the test the consumer is
prompted to press the light switch which
indicates to the kitchen staff that they
have finished products vary dramatically
from single component foods such as a
fruit juice towards multi-component
such as a ready meal a controlled
quantity of each sample is given at all
times
the food preparation area is surrounded
by the test booths samples are prepared
as per first on pack instruction always
directed by the supplier all products
are given a randomized three-digit code
so that they are tested anonymously a
red light signals to the kitchen staff
that consumers are ready for the next
sample each time a product is passed
through to the consumer they are
reminded to check their three-digit code
with that on their screen the kitchen
staff work to a pre-arranged schedule so
that samples are presented to the
consumers in a randomized order this
helps to further reduce any bias within
the test data entered by the consumer is
collated by our software for analysis
and reporting the calculations are
checked and interpretations are made and
reports are then issued to the client we
have a long track record of working with
retailers and suppliers all tests can be
modeled to meet the client's needs and
expertise is always available to guide
and advise clients on best sensory
practice if you are interested in any of
our bespoke testing services please get
in touch